---
permalink: "ubuntu-2404"
title: "Upgrading to Ubuntu 24.04"
summary: "Not everything went super smoothly"
date: "2024-12-20 00:29"
---

Some issues I ran into:

- `man` pages were no longer colored.
  - Workaround: [`export GROFF_NO_SGR=1`](https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=287185).
- Switching system theme with `gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface color-scheme prefer-dark` no longer takes effect.
  - No workaround as of yet.
  - Lot's of `xdg-portal` related packages installed and configured back and forth, to no avail (yet).
  - Adding `i3` to `UseIn=gnome;i3` in /usr/share/xdg-desktop-portal/portals/gtk.portal didn't help, reverted.
  - Adding `org.freedesktop.impl.portal.Settings=gtk` in ~/.config/xdg-desktop-portal/portals.conf didn't help, reverted.
  - `XDG_CURRENT_DESKTOP` is "i3", and `XDG_DESKTOP_PORTAL` is ""
  - There's an arch wiki page on [XDG Desktop Portal](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/XDG_Desktop_Portal)
  - I've got (not sure who owns this change) .config/systemd/user/xdg-desktop-portal.service.d/override.conf
```
[Service]
Environment=GTK_USE_PORTAL=1
```
- Running a simple Ansible playbook no longer works.
  - No workaround as of yet.
  - Missing python package, Ubuntu no longer likes `pip3`. Good, in a way; especially language-specific packages should not really be installed globally.
  - Tried using `uv` for the first time, didn't find the correct invocation.
- Volume up/down buttons didn't work.
  - Installing `pulseaudio` "fixed" it. It was supposed to be a "temporary solution", it probably will be permanent. I guess `pipewire` just needs some configuration and things probably work by accident currently.
- `gedit` is no longer a thing.
  - `gnome-text-editor` is apparently the new thing.
- Gnome Console (kgx) renders an extra symbol for dead keys (like ~ or `) even when "completed"
  - Both in the shell and in e.g. vim
